# sql-challange
The assignment was to design tables to hold CSV files, import the CSVs into a SQL database, and answer questions about the data.

## Data Engineering function performed:

* review each csv for valid content
* perform counts on each file
* confirm there were not duplicate rows

Excel was used to process the the data, looking at rows and using the highlight duplicates on primary keys. Additionally, concatenate function was used to check for duplicates

The Entity Relationship Diagram (ERD) was completed using GenMyModel. This diagram is located in the repository sql-challenge and EmployeeSQL folder as DatabaseDiagram.png

The sql code generated by GenMyModel is titled Table_Schemas.sql.

## Data Analysis Queries

The following queries were created in the DataAnalysisQuery.sql

* List the following details of each employee: employee number,  
last name, first name, sex, and salary.


* List first name, last name, and hire date for employees who were hired in 1986.


* List the manager of each department with the following information: department number, department name, the manager's employee number, last name, first name.


* List the department of each employee with the following information: employee number, last name, first name, and department name.


* List first name, last name, and sex for employees whose first name is "Hercules" and last names begin with "B."


* List all employees in the Sales department, including their employee number, last name, first name, and department name.


* List all employees in the Sales and Development departments, including their employee number, last name, first name, and department name.


* In descending order, list the frequency count of employee last names, i.e., how many employees share each last name.

## Bonus

Import the SQL Database into Pandas and create histogram for common salary ranges for employees. Create a bar chart of average salary by title.

The jupyter notebook is named bonus.ipynb




